Add docs to describe the inputs for the ``calc`` function of a user model (#1795)
sherpa/sherpa: docs/model_classes/usermodel.rst

   (0,0) vs (1,1) sort of thing?"
   

Overview
========

A single model is defined by the parameters of the model - stored
as `sherpa.models.parameter.Parameter` instances - and the function that
takes the parameter values along with an array of grid values to calculate
values of the model. This is packaged together in a class for each model,
and instances of this class can then be used to fit data.

Sherpa provides several base classes in `sherpa.models.model`; the most
commonly used ones are:

* `~sherpa.models.model.ArithmeticModel` is the main base class for deriving user models since
  it supports combining models (e.g. by addition or multiplication) and
  a cache to reduce evaluation time at the expense of memory use.
  (`~sherpa.models.model.ArithmeticConstantModel` and `ArithmeticFunctionModel` are less general
  than `~sherpa.models.model.ArithmeticModel` and can be used to represent
 a constant value or a function.)

* `~sherpa.models.model.RegriddableModel1D` and
  `~sherpa.models.model.RegriddableModel2D` which build on
  `~sherpa.models.model.ArithmeticModel` to allow a model to be

>   evaluated on a different grid to that requested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  evaluated on a separate grid and then re-binned or interpolated onto the requested grid.
```

Not sure that's better.

To define a new model, a new class inherits from one of these base classes and
implements an ``__init__`` method that defines the model parameters
and a ``calc`` method that, given the parameter values and the coordinates
at which the model is to be evaluated, returns the model values.

Calculating the model values
============================

Many Sherpa models are set up to work with both integrated and non-integrated data,
some might even work with data of different dimensionality. Because of that, the input

> to the ``calc`` method can take several forms:

Reviewer: So, maybe we should say that the default signature is (or should be, I haven't bothered to actually check `Model.calc`)

```python
def calc(self, p, *args, **kwargs):
```

(or use `pars` but need to check with e.g. #1797) and then it's up to the model to decide what to do - i.e. if you have a 1D model you could say

```python
def calc(self, p, x, xhi=None, **kwargs):
```

One concern I have is that we could also have this as one of

```
def calc(self, p, x0, x1=None, **kwargs):
def calc(self, p, lo, hi=None, **kwargs):
... etc ...
```

and so we (as in Sherpa) need to be careful to make sure we don't use named arguments when evaluating models.

If you want to sound Computer-Sciencey then you can throw around [Liskov Substitution Principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liskov_substitution_principle) but I think our code base is well beyond that.

Author: > we (as in Sherpa) need to be careful to make sure we don't use named arguments when evaluating models.

One more reason to change to an interface that gets the data in some more structured form (#1796), but here I'm just writing down what we do now. I'll add a suggestion with the "default" way to write that, but we don't have to enforce it.

    ...     #    slope  x0 <= x < xlo
    ...     #           xhi <= x < x1
    ...     #    zero   x < x0
    ...     #           x >= x1
    ...     #
    ...     hwidth = width / 2.0
    ...     dx = amplitude / slope
    ...     xlo = center - hwidth
    ...     xhi = center + hwidth
    ...     x0 = xlo - dx
    ...     x1 = xhi + dx
    ...
    ...     out = np.zeros(x.size)
    ...     out[(x >= xlo) & (x < xhi)] = amplitude
    ...
    ...     idx = np.where((x >= x0) & (x < xlo))
    ...     out[idx] = slope * x[idx] - slope * x0
    ...
    ...     idx = np.where((x >= xhi) & (x < x1))
    ...     out[idx] = - slope * x[idx] + slope * x1
    ...
    ...     return out

    >>> class Trap1D(model.RegriddableModel1D):
    ...     """A one-dimensional trapezoid.
    ...
    ...     The model parameters are:
    ...
    ...     ampl
    ...        The amplitude of the central (flat) segment (zero or greater).
    ...     center
    ...        The center of the central segment.
    ...     width
    ...        The width of the central segment (zero or greater).
    ...     slope
    ...         The gradient of the slopes (zero or greater).
    ...     """

>     ...

Reviewer: So, this code/documentation was written before (I hope before) #900 landed, which added some degree of dimension-checking to models. We should probably add a

```python
ndim = 1
```

definition here (and `ndim = 2` to the 2D model). And then mention it earlier in the text.

Note that this is (currently) only used to ensure that models are combined corrcetly (so you can't add 1D + 2D models), and not when it cmoes to model evaluation - that is, to check the arguments that are sent in (because it's hard to do, unless we had something like the structured array approach talked about in #1796 might help).

Author: These examples derive from `RegriddableModel1D/2D` and don't have to specify `ndim` because they inherit it form their parent class:
```Python

In [1]: from sherpa.models import model
   ...: class LinearModel(model.RegriddableModel1D):
   ...:     def __init__(self, name='linemodel'):
   ...:         self.slope = model.Parameter(name, 'slope', 1, min=-10, hard_min=-1e20, max=10, hard_max=1e20)
   ...:         super().__init__(name, (self.slope, ))
   ...: 
   ...:     def calc(self, pars, *args, **kwargs):
   ...:         if len(args) == 1:
   ...:             return args[0] * pars[0]
   ...:         elif len(args) == 2:
   ...:             xlo, xhi = args
   ...:             return (xlo + xhi) / 2 * pars[0]
   ...:         else:
   ...:             raise ValueError('This model only works in 1 dimension')
   ...: 

In [2]: import numpy as np
   ...: linear = LinearModel()
   ...: 

In [3]: linear.ndim
Out[3]: 1
```

That's why I did not set it here; however, I'll take the suggestion to add it in the text and explain (a) what it is and (b) why it's not set here.

Author: OK, I think it stems from a missing black line higher up (something like "sphinx warning: bulleted list did not end on empty line"), which confused it. It's fixed in my local version, I'll check again after I push.

Reviewer: I'd forgotten that I'd added that default to `RegriddableModel1D/2D`.

For background/any-one reading at  home, we use it in the `*OpModel` class to check when creating a combined model - so you'd get an error when you try to combine

```python
linear + sherpa.models.basic.Gauss2D()
```

in this case the
`two-dimemensional polynomial model 
<https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/api/astropy.modeling.polynomial.Polynomial2D.html>`_
from the AstroPy package::

> .. doctest-requires:: astropy

Reviewer: This is being rendered in the text, so is the code actually being tested?

![image](https://github.com/sherpa/sherpa/assets/224638/04f74710-59e7-455c-9386-c1b89a2e5267)

Author: It didn't show up when I build locally and checked, but now I can see it locally, too. I must have changed something, but not sure what but I'll find it and fix.

Either way though, the test runs (if astropy is installed), which I verified by putting an error in the code and checked that it fails.

Author: OK, I think it stems from a missing black line higher up (something like "sphinx warning: bulleted list did not end on empty line"), which confused it. It's fixed in my local version, I'll check again after I push.
